---
title: "Where is Home, Really?"
description: "On Claire Keegan's Foster, the inherited home, and the discovered one."
date: today
format: html
---

Claire Keegan's *Foster* is a small book that carries an outsized weight. A young girl is sent to stay with relatives for the summer --- the Kinsellas --- and what she finds there is not extraordinary. No grand gestures, no dramatic rescues. Just a household where she is noticed and allowed to simply exist. Keegan understands that for some people, that is everything.

What makes the Kinsella household so affecting is its quietness. Nobody performs love there. The girl is washed, fed, taken to the beach. She is asked questions and listened to. She learns, slowly, that she does not need to earn her place at their table. Keegan renders this without sentiment. Just the slow weight of small acts of care and what they do to someone who has not known them. Most readers will recognise something in it, even if they cannot immediately say what.

For some, the Kinsella household is not just a fictional place. There is something most people understand about the discovered home --- the friends, the colleagues, the unlikely people who show up and make room for you. What is harder to articulate is what it feels like to be seen by them after years of not quite being seen in the inherited one. The care can feel almost foreign. Strange enough that the instinct is sometimes to pull away, to make yourself smaller or to leave before you become too much. Accepting that you are accepted is its own quiet struggle.

But underneath it all, the inherited home never quite lets go either. It stays alongside the tenderness and the weight of being the one who holds things together. It is often in those moments, quieter than usual, that you feel most acutely what the discovered home does for you. How it holds you. How much you want it around you. And how, in keeping it at a safe distance for so long, you may have made it harder to reach for when you need it most. That is the shape of it: unresolved and ongoing.

Perhaps this is why the ending lingers. The girl goes back. Keegan doesn't soften it.

*"Daddy," she keeps calling. "Daddy."*

The word escapes before she can stop it. She is warning her father away and calling Kinsella closer, all in the same breath. It is the most unguarded moment in the book. And maybe the most true. That we spend so long not saying the things we mean, until one day we are held just tightly enough that they come out anyway.
